Hello, my name is Chinma Huttar. I am a
computer science engineer focused on
building scalable systems and using data
to solve real world problems. Okay. So,
a defining moment or an example of my
leadership is founding Iris innovation
research and intelligence support. So at
MIT World Peace University. So I
identified a gap where students lacked
structured platforms to apply their
technical skills beyond academics.
So to address this I built Iris into a
collaborative ecosystem where we
organized multidisciplinary hackathons
also conducted industry focused
networking events and supported students
in research and hands-on projects. So
this experiment
or this experience taught me how to
align teams, execute under constraints
and build systems that create consistent
impact. So also to talk about my
professional experience
uh I worked as a backend engineer at
ICICI Lombard contributing to enterprise
scale systems by developing APIs
optimizing databases and supported
production deployments.
Also at Aoma, a US-based startup, I
built uh scalable APIs and took
ownership across development life cycle
in fast-paced environments. Uh also my
work focuses on applying technology to
meaningful problems.
I developed an AI powered
uh semantic search using NLP and OCR to
improve product uh discovery workflows
designed to ensure fairness in
healthcare outcomes. So my research
includes it e published work on smart
traffic management using machine
learning and I have performed strongly
in competitions such as NASA space apps
challenge and I jodpur hackathon. Uh
beyond my technical work I have
consistently focused on community impact
through mentoring volunteering and
building Iris as a platform for
collaborative growth. uh I believe
leadership is about enabling others to
learn, contribute and uh execute
effectively. So at this stage my next
step is clear. While I have built
technical systems, I now want to operate
at the level where data drives decision
at scale. The master of business
analytics at UTS provides the ideal
platform for this transition. Combining
technical and business context and
strong industry alignment.